Good morning everybody.
Welcome to session 419,
Cocoa User Interface Programming In-Debt.
It's the first session of the last day,
so hopefully you guys are wide awake.
If you're here at 9
o'clock in the morning,
either you saw Andreas Wencke's
presentation on two days ago,
the intro version of this,
or you still think this is
Cocoa Performance Techniques,
it's not.
We're going to go in depth on some of the
cool new ways of doing your interface,
and to talk about it is Mark Piccirelli.
Thank you, Jason.
So, good morning.
Wednesday we introduced a lot of
new technology that makes user
interface programming much easier.
Now today we're going to
talk about the details.
In session 412,
we let you know about all the
new bindings and controllers
technology we're introducing.
The goal is to automate
user interface handling,
so you have to write much less code.
It provides some of the
features you've been asking for.
Of course, we integrated support for
it into Interface Builder,
and the whole goal, of course,
is to make your development
faster and easier.
and the effect on your application,
much less glue coat.
So I love this screenshot.
A big list of IB outlets
just goes completely away.
So what I'm going to talk about today,
in general I'm going to talk about
what it takes for your model objects
to integrate into this system.
And the interfaces by which we allow
that to happen are key value coding,
key value observing, key value binding.
We'll talk a little bit about how all
the controller classes fit into this,
and there'll be some notes
about performance at the end.
So the architecture that we tried to
adhere to while implementing all of
this is a classic model view controller.
For Cocoa,
Model View Controller means the
view classes that we've always had,
a full set of user interface
controls and everything.
Model classes like NS Document and
NSDictionary makes a
great generic model class.
And of course the model
classes you provide.
Now we're introducing three
new controller classes:
NSArrayController,
NSUserDefaultsController,
and NSObjectsController.
We're using the key value coding
system that's been in foundation
since Mac OS 10.0 and before,
actually.
We're introducing key value observing
in Panther and key value binding,
which ties it all together.
It's how object relationships
are established at nib loading
times and things like that.
And in the interest of full disclosure,
at this point I should admit
that on the WWDC seed disk,
NSArrayController's there.
Key value observing is mostly there,
but NSArrayController doesn't
use key value observing.
So a lot of what I'm going to talk
about is a little bit idealized.
But it's definitely all
going to be there in Panther,
and there's still lots of things
on the WWCC worth playing with.
And when I give examples today,
I'm just going to use
the old classic Sketch.
I updated Sketch so that the graphics
view supports binding and does observing,
things like that.
And it hooks up to one of
the new array controllers.
And the draw document got updated a
little bit to support key value coding,
key value observing,
and I'll show you that.
So, terminology.
There's some words that I'm going
to be using that everybody uses,
but not everybody uses the same way.
So, today, when I say property,
I mean an attribute, a 2-1 relationship,
or a too-many relationship.
By attribute, I mean something simple,
a single immutable value,
like the fill color or stroke
width of a sketch graphic.
A 2-1 related object is a single
object related to another.
It's not an attribute,
it has properties of its own,
so it'll have attributes.
An example is the sketch image class,
if you've walked through
that sample code.
The image is 2-1 related to
the graphic that holds it.
And too-many related objects are,
as the name implies,
collections of related objects,
so the graphics of a sketch document.
A sketch document has a
collection of graphics.
for ethics.
So the first leg of the tripod on which
all this is built is key value coding.
It's been around for a long, long time.
We're making some changes to the
implementations of existing API.
We're adding new API.
And why do you care?
Because if you're implementing
custom model classes and you
want them to work with this
binding and work with controllers,
they have to be key
value coding compliant.
And I'll show you what key
value coding compliant means.
So key value coding is our system
for giving access to object
properties using a very generic
API that identifies them by key.
And by key,
we just mean string for the most part.
A sketch graphic has -- or I'm sorry,
a sketch document has graphics
identified by the word graphics,
and the individual graphics
have properties like fill color.
And you just name the keys, you know,
something programmer readable.
And these are the same keys that you
saw typed into the interface builder
bindings inspector in Wednesday's demos.
So and in the context of
what we're talking about,
key value coding lets views get
and set values in controllers,
and it lets controllers get and
set values in model objects.
So the first method of key value coding,
there's a bunch,
I'm only going to go through
like four of them today though.
They serve about 90% of the time.
Value for key returns the
value of the keyed property.
What's interesting about what it does is
it actually uses the Objective-C runtime
to poke around in the class of the model
object to which this message is sent.
And it invokes an accessor
method whose name is typically
just the same as the key.
So your model classes you get
to write in a very natural way,
but this API allows clients to
access them in a very generic way.
One of the features it does for you,
it converts scalar values like booleans
and integers and floats to NSNumbers so
that they can be passed up through the
API and around to different parts easily.
So, for example, a sketch graphic has a
boolean attribute drawStroke,
and the accessor method is
implemented in a totally natural way,
and it still works.
When value for key drawStroke
is sent to that object,
an NSNumber is returned.
An NSNumber is a little bit
easier to pass around through
this generic stuff than a boolean
or an integer or a float would be.
Something new we're adding
to Value4Key for Panther is
actually inspired by scripting,
and we're adding specific support to
Value4Key for too many relationships,
you know,
collections of objects that aren't
most easily stored in NSArray.
A complicated example of
this is in text storage,
its scripting support has a too
many relationship called words.
And to have it pick it all apart and
return an array of words every time
somebody asks just for one of them
isn't really that great of a thing.
So we're adding a few more key
value coding compliance methods.
So you'll have your choice.
You can either implement graphics in the
example of this sketch draw document,
or you can implement two methods,
count of graphics and object
and graphics at index to provide
access to that relationship.
And
So, and whatever you choose,
the key value coding client,
the caller of value for key,
can't tell the difference.
It gets back an NSArray.
Key value coding puts the
NSArray together and the client
that uses key value coding can
send any NSArray method to it,
including methods that are
implemented in categories on NSArray.
Something new we added just by request
was support for key value coding get
accessor names that more closely match
the conventions that you see in our API.
Value for key not only looks
for methods of the same name,
but it looks for methods
that begin with is.
So you can write still more natural code.
A brand new method for
Panther is setValueForKey,
and as its name implies,
it sets the value of the keyed property.
It's a renaming of a method that's
already in there called takeValueForKey,
and typically we don't just
go rename things in the kit.
This is actually in addition
to the takeValueForKey
method that's already there,
but we consider it a renaming.
We realized while we were working
on this that key value coding was
going to get much more popular,
more widely used than it has been,
so we decided to clean
up things like this.
So in the default implementation does the
equivalent of what valueForKey would do.
It looks for a method whose name
fits the pattern and invokes it.
So when you send an object
setValueForKey fillColor,
it will invoke a method
named setFillColor.
And just like valueForKey does,
it does NSNumber to
scalar value conversion.
Something that's been missing that
we're adding to Panther that's going
to be very useful in the context of
this UI programming is a new method
named ValidateValueForKeyError.
And its implementation is supposed
to either return a value good enough
for passing into setValueForKey or
it's supposed to return an error.
And the reason this is separate
from setValue is because it
separates validation roles from
decisions about when to validate.
How to validate is
always a model decision,
but when to validate is a UI decision.
So for truly reusable model objects,
keeping this separate is a good thing.
You might want to defer validation
until the user hits the next button
on a pane or something like that.
And the way you implement this
follows a typical KVC pattern.
You just have to name
the method correctly,
and that's it.
I couldn't think of an
example of this for Sketch,
so I picked a zip code,
which I think people will
probably be typing in a lot.
And the method name just
follows that pattern.
Something really new for
Panther is this method,
mutable array value for key.
And what it does is it returns
an NSMutableArray or something
indistinguishable from one that
contains too many related objects.
And the reason we need this is
because you're not supposed to
mutate the NSArray that's returned
by value for key when the key
refers to too many relationships.
So we wanted to support this concept of,
you know, a client that's naive of the
class to which it's bound being
able to mutate sets of objects.
So we added this.
And the invoker of this method
gets to send any NSMutableArray
message to the result,
again, including things that are
implemented on categories.
The user of this method
really has total flexibility.
It's not limited to a specific
API when manipulating the data.
But the model class that provides the
data doesn't have much responsibility.
It just has to implement two methods
that correspond to the two most
primitive NSMutable array primitives,
insertion and removal.
So the client of key value coding gets
to do all sorts of different things,
but the thing that implements key
value coding support for that key
doesn't have much responsibility.
A concept that will be coming up a lot
as I talk and shows up a lot in this
UI technology is a concept of key paths.
And for each one of the
methods I just showed you,
there's a variant that takes a
key path instead of just a key.
And these are actually probably
invoked a little more often
than the plain key methods.
And what's a key path?
A key path is just a
dot-separated list of keys.
And those methods that take key
paths pick them apart at the right
times and invoke accessor methods.
And those methods correctly.
So if you send to some object set
value for key path image dot flipped,
it'll get the image and it'll effectively
send set value for key to that image,
which boils down basically to the line
you see on the bottom of just getting
the image and calling set flipped.
So key value binding is in
terms of key paths and key value
observing is in terms of key paths.
And our controllers use key paths.
For example,
an NSRA controller republishes the
properties of whatever it's bound to.
It republishes those properties,
you know, of the selected objects and it
does it using this key path form.
So you have to know about them,
but you don't have to do
anything to implement them.
So,
if you're writing custom model objects,
like sketch graphics, for example,
here's basically all you have
to do to make those classes
key value coding compliant.
You'd have to implement enough methods
for value for key and set value for
key and things like that to work.
So,
for each attribute or 2-1 relationship,
you know, single values,
you can just implement methods named
the same as the key that you've
picked to identify that property.
And if it's a mutable property,
you have to implement a set method also.
If there's validation to be done,
you implement the validation method.
If there is no validation method,
that's fine.
Validate value for key error just
assumes there's no validation necessary.
For each 2-many relationship,
like the graphics in a sketch document,
you have your choice.
You can either implement a simple method
with the same name as the relationship,
or you can implement a pair of methods,
whichever is most convenient
in your situation.
And, you know,
you can change it after the fact
without having to go change other code.
For each 2-many relationship
that can be mutated,
things can be inserted, removed,
or replaced in it,
you just have to implement
this pair of methods:
insert object and key at index,
or remove object from key at index.
So the demos you saw on
Wednesday were great,
and they took advantage of
the fact that NSDictionary is
key value coding compliant.
So for simple model objects,
don't bother writing the class.
Just use NSDictionary.
So the demos you saw on
Wednesday were great,
and they took advantage of
the fact that NSDictionary is
key value coding compliant.
So for simple model objects,
don't bother writing the class.
Just use NSDictionary.
So the next thing that we're introducing
in Panther is key value observing.
It's all new API.
I'll talk about how to observe.
I'll explain why your model objects have
to be key value observing compliant so
that other objects can bind to them.
And I'll explain what you have
to do to make your model classes
key value observing compliant.
So what does key value observing do?
The summary is that it allows
objects to be notified of changes to
specific properties of other objects.
The notifications are very detailed.
In the context of this UI programming,
it lets views be notified of
changes to values and controllers,
and it lets controllers be notified of
changes to values and model objects.
An observer registers its interest in
getting notifications using this method:
@ObserverForKeyPathOptionsContext.
This isn't part of an informal protocol,
and this object really does
have an implementation of this
that does everything you need.
We don't even really expect this
to be overridden that often.
These messages are actually sent to
the individual objects to be observed.
There's no observer center that you
know about or anything like that.
For this to be meaningful,
The receiver must be key
value observing compliant.
As far as reference counting goes,
I think there's probably going to
be a bunch of different situations
as far as reference counting goes.
What's appropriate for the observer
to observe the observed object or not.
So key value observing just
stays out of the discussion.
It's API.
It doesn't cause any retains or releases.
There'll be some standard things that
people will do over and over again
as far as retaining and releasing,
but key value observing leaves
everything very flexible.
And as you would expect,
if there's an addObserver method,
there's also a removeObserver method.
So the first parameter is the observer.
It's the recipient of notifications
about changes to the property
identified by the keypath.
This observer must implement the
NSKeyValueObservingInformer protocol,
which is one method, this one,
ObserveValueForKeyPathOfObjectChangeCont
ext,
and I'll talk about it a bit later.
And again,
as an example of who's observing what,
the controls in sketches
and specter panel,
that I'll show you in a bit,
will observe the selection
properties of an NSArrayController
to which they're bound.
So the key path is just the key path.
It identifies the
property to be observed.
Sticking to that example,
selection.fillcolor.
And it can identify an attribute
to too one relationship
or too many relationships.
You can not only observe simple values,
you can observe collections
values and be told when things are
inserted or removed or replaced.
Key value observing supports
two options right now.
We definitely expect this
list to grow in the future,
but right now there are just two,
new and old.
And these don't control when
observer notifications are sent,
just what's in them when they are sent.
So new controls whether or not
the observer notification has
the value after the change,
and old controls whether or not
the observer notification contains
the value from before the change
that's causing the observer.
So I think in the feedback
after the session on Wednesday,
somebody asked about
automatic undo support,
which is something we always think about.
And I think this old option
will probably be a big piece
of that when it comes around.
And there's a context parameter
following a pattern that's
common in a lot of Cocoa APIs,
something that you can pass
in that'll just be passed
back to you at the right time.
And we think people will probably
use this for identifying the
reason for the observation,
when one observer is observing
a bunch of different things.
So the notification method,
observe value for key path
of object change context,
is what's sent to the observer for
every change to the observed property.
And it's very generic.
Key value observing doesn't care
what you do when you observe.
It's meant to be very low
level and very generic.
So, and the key path and the
object are pretty much just the
things bouncing back to you.
Same thing with context.
Change is an NSDictionary full of
the information about what changed.
There are four possible entries into it,
the kind of change,
indexes for the change if there are any,
and new values and old values.
There are two basic kinds of
observable change notification.
The first one is for simple setting.
When the key value coding set
value for key method is invoked and
somebody's observing for that property,
this is the kind of
change that will be used,
setting.
If somebody's observing a too many
relationship and something gets
inserted or removed or replaced,
one of these next three observer
notifications will be sent.
And for example, when might that happen?
When somebody uses that mutable
array value for key method and
mutates the array that it gets back,
something like this will
be sent to any observers.
and in the case of insertion, removal,
or replacement,
it provides the indexes of the objects
that are inserted or removed or
replaced using the new NSIndexSet class
we're introducing in Panther.
It doesn't make sense for
simple setting changes,
so it's not there then.
In the last two entries of the
Key Value Observing Change notification
are old values and new values.
And, you know,
these aren't there if the observer
didn't specify it wanted them
when it registered as an observer.
So for simple changes, settings,
these are just the old and
new values of the property.
For insertions, removals,
and replacements,
these are actually arrays of
the objects that are inserted,
removed, or replaced.
So how do you,
what does your model class have to do for
these key value observer notifications
to be sent out when properties
in your model class are changed?
Well, there's the pretty easy way
and the really easy way.
This is the pretty easy way.
You just have to surround the change
with indications of will change value
for key and did change value for key.
and in the case of too many,
that was for attributes
and too many relationships.
For too many relationships,
when collections of
objects are being changed,
the methods you have to invoke
are a little more detailed.
Will change and you have to specify
removal replacement or insertion.
The relevant indexes and then
again the key that identifies
the too many relationship.
So that's not so bad,
but we don't even want to force
you to have to write that much
stuff into your model classes.
So we're introducing a
feature called Automatic
Key Value Observer Notification,
and it's actually on by default,
so you don't even have to
do anything to turn it on.
And what Automatic Key Value Observer
Notification means is whenever any
of those key value coding methods,
like set value for key, is invoked,
that will cause an
Automatic Key Value Observer
Notification to be sent out.
And not only that,
but indications of key value
coding compliant methods result
in observer notifications.
So not only does setValueForKey
messages cause observer
notifications for that key,
but so do implementations of the
accessor methods for that property.
And not only do mutations of the
result of mutable array value
for key cause notifications,
but when anybody sends an insert
object in key at index or a
move object from key at index
message to an observed container,
that will cause key value
observer notifications.
So you don't have to sprinkle "will
change value for key" and "did change
value for key" all over your code.
If your model objects access
their own values and each other's
values consistently through key
value coding compliant methods,
we'll do the rest.
You know, simple set methods,
just keep using those.
You know,
you might already be using those
and it'll just automatically work.
So and of course,
there are a couple of situations
where you can't go through those
key value coding compliant methods.
And even when you're using automatic
key value observer notification,
the manual mode keeps working.
So, key value binding is the third leg
of the tripod that all this sits on.
It's a brand new API and it's
what ties it all together.
It's what allows the value of an
object's property to be tied to the
value of another object's property.
And this API we're introducing
provides plenty of flexibility so
that objects can support binding
options that we can't even anticipate.
And key value binding,
when it's being used,
that implies that typically
key value coding and key value
observing are being used too.
So this API,
this key value binding API is used
at nib loading time typically.
It can be used at other times of course.
And views and controllers get hooked
up to controllers and model objects.
Key value observer or key value
observers are registered with the
things that they're observing.
UI controls at that point take
responsibility for updating
whatever they're bound to
whenever the user manipulates the
value that they're presenting.
And of course all the app kit
classes to which we're adding
binding support do this.
So this is what the method looks like.
It's just bind to object
with key path options.
And this is, again,
it's sent at nib loading time.
You can use it at other times, too,
for more complicated situations.
But for a while,
this will probably -- we don't
expect too many uses of it,
you know, other than nib loading time,
but it's there for you.
So and, of course,
there's an unbind method, too.
So the parameters are the name
of the binding and a lot of these
look like key value coding keys,
but they don't necessarily have to be.
And for example,
NSControl exposes a value binding and
NSTextField exposes an editable binding,
things like text color too.
The other parameters are
what is being bound to,
the object that contains
the property to be bound to,
and the key path of the property.
And there's a dictionary
that takes options.
So I think Andrea's covered most of
these options pretty well on Wednesday,
but just to refresh your memory,
things like value transformer,
something that can
manipulate the value for,
you know, as part of more glue while
things are moving around.
Placeholders,
the marker values that come out of
controllers for complicated selection
situations become placeholders
that are presented in the UI.
And any options that are
specific to the binding.
So, controller classes,
they're the first big
clients of key value coding,
key value observing,
and key value binding.
There is an abstract superclass,
NSController, and three subclasses,
NSArrayController, object controller,
and user defaults controller.
So, NSArrayController is what you would
typically bind a table view to now.
And NSArrayControllers have a too many
relationship named arranged objects.
They're the set of objects to be
presented to the user after any sorting
or filtering or whatever is done.
On the other side of
the Arrange Controller,
you can bind it, its array relationship,
to the too-many relationship
of a model object.
In our example, for example,
the graphics of a sketch
document are what the Array
Controller we're using binds to.
So key-value observer notifications
from the model object cause
key-value observer notifications
to be sent to the table view,
first to the Array Controller,
then to the table view.
And the Array Controller just
doesn't pass them straight through.
It updates them to take things
like sorting into account,
because that's what the table view is
thinking about as arranged objects.
And it also keeps the
selection up to date.
When objects are removed or inserted,
it makes sure that the
selection that's showing in the
table view still makes sense.
And in addition to binding
an NSArray controller to a
relationship of a model object,
you can just use the set content method
that it publishes and let it manage
the life cycle of an array of objects.
You don't have to bind it to anything.
You can just let it do all the
work for simple situations.
So the first big feature
that an NSArrayController
has is selection management.
You combine the selection indexes
of a table view to an array
controller's selection indexes.
And when you do that,
and you've also bound the
selection properties of an
array controller to UI elements,
whenever the selection changes,
key value observer notifications
are sent to the UI elements.
So, for example,
a color well that's bound
to an array controller's
selection is notified whenever,
in this example,
whenever the fill color of
the selected graphics changes.
And that might happen either because
the fill color of an individual
graphic changed or the set of
selected graphics changed and all
the different situations that would
cause that to be updated in the UI.
NSRA Controller isn't just for binding,
it provides a real API of its own,
you know,
big set of methods you get to call,
and just a selection of them.
NSRA Controller has built-in support
for user-friendly selection behavior.
A few flags like avoids empty selection,
for when that's appropriate
in a table view,
preserves selection so that
things are being inserted and
removed around the selection,
the selection stays still,
and selects inserted objects for
when that's the right UI behavior.
and for situations where the array
controller is being manipulated
by some other code of your own,
you can get it all the things like the
selection indexes using methods like set
selection indexes and add and remove.
The other big feature that
NSArrayController supports
right now is sorting.
So you can bind the sort descriptors
of a table view to the sort
descriptors of an array controller.
So as the user is clicking in the table
column headers to change the sort order,
the table view tells the controller that
the list of sort descriptors has changed.
And when it does that, NSArrayController,
you know,
actually does the sorting and sends
out key value observer notifications
for the arranged objects relationship.
So that was an NSArray controller.
NSObject controller is also there,
and as its name implies,
it controls a single
object instead of an array.
So why is it useful to bind a
UI control to an object controller?
It's because you can bind an
object controller to something
that might be coming and going.
It will observe a 2-1
relationship in another object.
And it does clever things like
handling the situations where that
2-1 related object disappears or
the type of it means that the bound
to property is no longer applicable.
So in general,
NSObjectController serves the purpose
of generating these marker objects
that you heard about on Wednesday that
get converted to placeholder
objects that show up in the UI,
even in simple situations.
So just as with NSArrayController,
for NSObjectController,
it has a set content method,
so you can just let it own
what's being presented.
and the third new controller
is NSUserDefaultsController.
We saw demonstrations
of that on Wednesday.
And what you do is you bind the
values of UI controllers to the
value of a UserDefaultsController,
you know, some subproperty of it,
the key for which, you know,
you get to pick the name.
So not only can you do that,
but you can observe
NSUserDefaultsController.
So other parts of your program that want
to know immediately when the preference
has changed can just register themselves
as key value observers of those
properties in NSUserDefaultsController.
It also supports handy
support for setting the
initial values of preferences,
you know, the factory defaults.
And shared UserDefaultsController
is easy to get to in IB.
You saw it being picked from
the pull-down menu in the
Bindings Inspector on Wednesday.
So let me show you some of
this code I'm talking about.
So let's say that Sketch was so useful
that it was worth packaging up and making
sure that it was properly reusable.
The first thing we would do in
doing that is adding binding
support to its graphic view.
And here's a simple implementation
of the key value binding
method that I told you about.
This Sketch graphic view
supports two binding names.
One is graphics, the list of graphics to
be presented in the view,
and selection indexes, just the,
you know, which graphics are selected.
So the implementation is pretty simple.
All it does is it just stores a
pointer to the container of the
graphics that's being passed in,
the key path that was specified.
And then it starts observing
that container of graphics.
Both graphics that are being inserted
and graphics that are being removed
so it can update the display.
I'm sorry,
removed while that's happening.
And the context it specifies,
just so it can identify why it's
getting these observer notifications,
is just
One of a handful, you know, simple ints.
It really just needs them
for identification purposes.
And for selection indexes,
it does a similar thing.
It records the information about
what the graphic view is bound to
and then adds itself as an observer.
And then it updates the display.
So Sketch's draw document,
for it to allow things to bind to it,
it has to be key value coding and key
value observing compliant for this
graphics relationship that it publishes.
This is all it takes to do to be both
key value coding and key value observing
compliant for that relationship.
Just something that returns
an array of the graphics and a
method that handles insertion.
And in this case,
it still has to do its own undo support.
And In addition to doing
the actual insertion,
it also tells the graphic.
will be joined by the panel of speakers.
For individual graphics,
individual graphics also have to be key
value observing compliant so that the
Sketch graphic view can observe them,
can be told when they're changed
so it knows to update the screen.
The first one I'll show
you here is set fill color.
And I didn't have to change this at all.
This is already key
value coding compliant.
And because we're using automatic
key value observer notification,
it's already KVO compliant.
So no changes necessary for this one.
For set stroke line width,
it does a little more.
The line width of the sketch
graphic affects how large
the graphic is on the screen.
So it just manually says
when the line width changes,
the drawing bounds change.
And actually,
there's another feature that's going to
be in Panther called set keys trigger
change notifications for dependent key.
A mouthful.
But this is what you can use to
indicate things like the drawing bounds.
Of the sketch graphic
depends on the line width.
So this will change value for
key and did change value for key.
It won't even be necessary
in this situation,
though.
I should leave it in just so
you can see what it looks like.
So.
So we just run this and it's Sketch,
you know, Sketch, that's all.
So it has an inspector panel.
And here I'll select them all.
So as you change things, that just works.
So, and I'll show you the code for
the inspector panel in a second.
is the owner of the software.
The code for the Inspector Panel,
I think you can see this coming,
is automatically updated on the screen.
I'll show you some of
the bindings in the nib.
This is pretty neat.
IB gives you a nice summary of
what's going on with the bindings.
So the checkbox here for controlling
whether or not the graphic is filled is
just bound to the selection.drawAsFill
of an array controller.
The fill color is bound
to selection.fillColor
of an array controller.
And actually, it's really not appropriate
to leave that enabled when
that checkbox is not checked.
So you can bind the enabled binding of
the color well to selection.drawsFill.
So, and so on.
So because of all the binding support
in the Inspector Panel and because,
you know, NSRA controller is taking
care of everything for you,
here is the source code
for Inspector Controller,
which is no longer part of the project.
I got to take all of it out.
So this is not actually built
into the project anymore.
So how many lines of code got to
go away because of that binding
support in Inspector Panel?
We won't count a copyright notice.
So about 250 lines.
So it has to go completely away.
So the last thing I'll talk
about today is performance.
Some of what we're doing to make sure
that the new technology is fast enough
to use and some performance notes
about being key value coding compliant
and key value observing compliant.
So as I mentioned,
observation info is actually associated
with each individual observed object.
And that might sound expensive to you.
You might imagine, oh, no,
that means that there's going to be
twice as many objects in my system,
each object and then the
observation info for each object.
And no, that won't be the case.
We're actually taking great care to make
sure that when multiple model objects
are being observed in the same way,
same set of observers, same keys,
same things like that,
the memory that's allocated to record
that observation is shared between
the individual observed objects.
Key value coding's performance
has always been very important
and we're making sure we don't
ruin it with key value observing.
So set value for key has a certain
cost to it and we're making sure
that cost isn't going to go up
inappropriately when somebody is
observing that key for that model object.
So in the general rule we're following
is that we're providing good default
implementations for everything,
but we're open to optimization,
but we're leaving things open to
optimization for specific cases,
which I'll show you.
One piece of advice for you,
value for key, don't override it.
There's a bunch of performance
tricks we can play as far as caching
Objective-C runtime info goes,
but all those tricks are effectively
defeated if value for key is overridden.
So in general,
just stick to the pattern of
implementing key value coding
compliant accessor methods.
So I mentioned that we added the support
for implementing key value coding
compliant methods of the form count
of key and object and key at index.
Those are required if you're using that
pattern of giving access to relationship.
If measurement says it's worth it,
you can also implement a method
whose name follows this pattern,
get key range.
So those first two methods correspond
roughly to the primitives of NSRA.
And this next method corresponds
pretty much to another
NSRA method that you can override.
For mutable too-many relationships,
you have to implement these insert
object and remove object methods.
You can also implement a replace
method if it makes a difference in
your too-many relationships case.
So that's just two optional key
value coding compliant methods.
We plan on adding a bunch
more in the future as we get
more experience with this,
see how people are using it,
and see the performance issues
that need to be dealt with.
And for example,
we might add more optional key value
coding compliant methods that let
you insert and remove ranges or work
with the new NS index set class
that's being introduced in Panther.
So and whatever we do though,
we don't intend to change the
list of methods that's required
to be key value coding compliant.
As far as using key value coding goes,
the advice is don't overuse it.
So if you're converting code,
making it more generic,
letting it support bindings,
and you're converting implementations
of simple methods to use as a value for
key and mutable array value for key,
that might be worth measuring
when you're all done with that.
These methods are pretty fast
considering what they do,
but they will always be
more expensive than a simple
Objective-C message dispatch,
so you should check that.
When you're using value for
key and getting an array back,
or using mutable array value for key
and getting a mutable array back,
what we're suggesting for now is
try to use it just like you would a
normal NSArray or NS mutable array.
Our intent is that the
performance characteristics will
be pretty much the same as a
real NSArray or NS mutable array.
So when that's not the case,
we want to hear about it.
And if you see optimization
needs to be done,
try and keep that in the model code and,
you know, where it will be more reusable.
As far as efficient key value
observing compliance goes,
there's a pair of methods that you
get to override if you need to,
and I think typically you won't,
but they're called set observation
info and observation info.
So when large numbers of
objects are being observed,
the observation info is actually
stored separately from the object
and associated with a hash table.
And that should be good
for most of the time,
but there may be
situations where it's not.
And when it's not,
we just want you to give us four bytes
of instance variable space and let
us put the observation info there.
and in general with key value observing,
take advantage of the fact that
these observation notifications
are super fine granularity.
It just doesn't say
that the object changed,
it says that this property
of the object changed.
So, you know,
don't cause key value observer
notifications to be sent out
when nothing's actually changing.
And on the other side of it,
don't observe unnecessarily.
So the app kit views to which
binding support are being added take
care not to observe gratuitously.
The best example of this is table view.
When a table view's row objects are bound
to too many relationships in a container,
for example in an
NSArray controller's arranged objects,
which will be typical, if the table view,
if there's like 100,000
rows in the table,
it doesn't observe 100,000 objects,
it just observes the 50 that
are visible at any one time.
And we're taking care to make
sure that adding and removing one
object as an observer of another is
fast enough to make that feasible.
So there isn't any noticeable
overhead while you're scrolling a
table view caused by the fact that
the table view is deregistering
itself as an observer of objects.
So the table view is just a
scroll of objects as they scroll
off and registering itself as
an observer as they scroll on.
So one more pair of methods
I haven't told you about yet.
It's the bulk variant of
AddObserver and RemoveObserver.
So the same set of parameters
as the AddObserver and the
RemoveObserver I've already shown you,
but it's sent to an NSArray and
it takes an index set,
identifying the objects
to which KeyValueObserver
should be added or removed.
So, and in general, you know,
there's a little bit of work that
has to be done when one object adds
itself as an observer of another.
With these methods, that little bit of
work is only done once.
Basically,
the observed objects are just told,
you know, here's your observation info,
hold on to it for me.
So that's pretty much it.
On Wednesday we introduced great new
technology to make User Interface
Programming much easier.
And today we talked about what
it takes for your custom model
objects to hook into that.
So it basically boils down to
being key value coding compliant
and key value observing compliant.
And we've worked pretty hard
to make sure that that's going
to be fast and easy for you.
So I hope you all give what
is on the WWC seat a try.
It should work pretty well for you.
And we hope you write great
custom maps with this.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
Okie dokie.
There we go.
So,
John Galenzi is the person you want to
talk to if you've got some information,
feedback, what have you,
on all the Cocoa stuff that
you've seen at the show.
If you have general API suggestions,
they should go to coco-feedback
at group.apple.com.
Those go directly to the
Cocoa engineering team.
And if you have code level questions,
they should come to my team,
developer technical support,
and we're happy to help you.
If you need more information,
we've got no documentation.
But feel free to check the headers.
We will have documentation for Panther.